All right.
So in this lesson, I want to talk about type literals.
A type literal is a type that represents a single value and nothing else.
So let me show you two examples side by side.
What I'm going to do is declare a variable using the let keyword.
I'll call.
The variable is smart and I'll set it to true.
And on the line below I declare a constant called is handsome and I will also set it to true.
And what I want to do here is hover my mouse over the respective names and see the kind of types that
TypeScript has inferred for them.
Right.
So if I hover, my mouse over is smart.
You'll see that TypeScript has inferred that is smart as a boolean and that is correct.
However, when I hover my mouse over is handsome.
It's actually going to be a little bit surprising, a little bit different.
It's not going to be a boolean.
It's going to be specifically a value of true.
So true in this case is both the value and the type.
Now, why is this the case?
Well, this is the way that JavaScript works as well, right?
If we have a left keyword, that means that that variables value can change.
So is smart can totally be reassigned to the value false.
That's why we use that.
So we can reassign the name to another value in our program.
So TypeScript will still guarantee that is smart.
Must be a boolean.
It can go from true to false back to true to false.
It can always be any of those two values.
But because it is a variable that can change, it's totally okay for it to change values.
In comparison, whenever we use the cons keyword in JavaScript, we are permanently assigning a name
to whatever value we have on the right hand side.
So is handsome can never change to be anything else in our program.
We cannot say is handsome equals false.
Because is handsome of course is a concept.
We said that that is constant.
Its value can never change.
We cannot assign to is handsome because it is a constant.
So because JavaScript knows that it knows that is handsome is not just a boolean.
More specifically, is handsome is going to be always true.
So its type is more specific than just a general boolean, which can be either true or false.
It is specifically a boolean that is always going to be true.
All right.
So if I hover my mouse, that's why it says is handsome is not just the Boolean, it's more specifically
a true value.
So true in this case, it's kind of confusing, but true is both the value and the type because the
type cannot change and neither can the value in this scenario.
Right.
It's not just going to be a general boolean whose value can change.
It is a true type and always going to be a true type in its value.
Is handsome, will always stay true.
It's not just the general volume.
All right.
The same rules apply for any other types or primitives in JavaScript.
So, for example, if I have a let's add to weight and I assign that A to 15, TypeScript now knows
that weight is going to be a general number and that number can change.
We can totally reassign weight to anything else, like 100.
In comparison, if I use a contact here for something like height and I assign cons to 71, we can never
reassign height to anything else, not another data type or another number for that matter.
So if I hover my mouse over height, we can see TypeScript knows that the type of height is also going
to be 71, just like the value.
It can never go to any other value in our program and touchable warn us if that's the case.
Of course, JavaScript will also warn us if we try to reassign height to something else.
So that's nothing special.
But it's just to indicate how tight through this processing the work we have in front of it.
All right.
Same rules apply to strings.
If I have a variable called location set to New Jersey, that location is a string.
TypeScript knows that.
Let me see what errors giving us here.
Cannot read Claire Blocks covering the location.
Okay.
That's something that's I think it's title types for specific specific thing.
If I change this to my location, that should go away.
Okay, so it looks like location is some kind of built in keyword in the language.
But the key takeaway here is if I have a variable called my location, TypeScript knows that that is
a string and that can change to something else, like, for example, Florida.
However, if we have a contact like my country and I set that to USA, that is more than just the string
type.
That is something that always has to be the string USA.
It's a more specific type and TypeScript will watch.
Not just that my country stays a string, but more specifically that it has to stay the string that's
literally U.S..
All right.
So that's the basics about type literals and TypeScript and I will see you in the next lesson.